I am starting to record this from day 3 onwards and I'll be writing for day four and day five on day six, before I begin I should also mention that I've been watching the theory part of the videos from *Failproof OpenGL for beginners* by *Low Level Game Dev* during the semester to get more familiar with the topic. 

## Day Four 

I only watched the loading shaders video. Spent five hours forty minutes in total learning. Noted down the concepts and the code to paper, had to learn to rewrite C++ concepts such as std::Struct using C standart libraries. After finishing the video and downloading the source code I realised the struct was written as a header file. Although I didn't completely understand the concepts in the video loading shaders can simply be boiled down to(I might be wrong): we have shaders in some txt, we read the data, we create a shader id for vertex and fragment shaders, then we attach, link the data to make the shaders into a program.

## Day Five

No progress in opengl tutorials. Spent three hours learning. Since I don't know how to write C programs with multiple files and how to write header files, I went back to *C Programming A Modern Approach* by *King, K. N.*, I read and noted down chapter 10, program organization; although I knew most of the concepts of this chapter it helped me clarify what a block is, and how scope works. I also read almost halfway into chapter 14, preprocessor. I learned of the steps that lead to compilation and some interesting facts such as whitespace doesn't matter when writing directives and we can continiue directives onto new lines by leaving a '\' at the end of line. My initial goal for this day was to learn how to manage large programs in C and how do header files work, I couldn't do it but it was still a fun and productive day.

## Day Six

Unfortunately couldn't progress on the opengl tutorial series again, spent 4 hours 18 minutes learning - the 2 hours was especially productive. Finished the part about preprocessor and writing large programs. Learnt a cool way for writing max function using directives and token pasting. Spent near an hour or so trying to implement stack data structure because of how often it is mentioned in the book, finally learned how header files work and how we can concurrently have multiple source files, tbh this problem had been bugging me for so long so I feel relieved finally learning how to manage more than one file. Previously I thought header files are used to write code we can then include in our file with the main function. That's partially true but there is a much better way of using them which is to write function prototypes on the header file and have function definitions(not sure if it's the correct word) in a source file which we then can add to any other source file by just including the header file on both the one with the functions and the one we want to use. I also learned how to protect header files using ifndef directive and that pragma once is equivalent to it. I implemented this knowledge of program organization today to the code I wrote following the ogl tutorial and now it looks much better and hopefully I can continue with the tutorial now.    
